CRAIG: Hi, I'm Craig Smith and this is Eye
on AI. This week I talk to Yoshua Bengio,
one of the founders of deep learning about
augmenting large language models with world
models and inference machines that would give
AI systems the ability to reason on reality.
We also talked about the famous pause letter
of which Yoshua was perhaps the most prominent signer.
CRAIG: We are sponsored this week by NetSuite,
Oracle's cloud-based enterprise resource planning
software to help any business manage their
financials, operations, and customer relationships
in a single platform.
For the first time in NetSuite's, 22
years as the number one cloud financial system,
you can defer payments on a full implementation
of NetSuite for six months. No payment.
No interest for six months. Take advantage of
this special financing offer at www.netsuite.com/eyeonai.
It's an unprecedented offer.
CRAIG: Hey, how are you?
YOSHUA: Very good.
CRAIG: so I know you don't
have much time. I'm going to jump right into
it. First of all, on, on the letter specifically,
the letter has triggered this FTC complaint.
It was made by the Center for Artificial Intelligence
and Digital Policy. I don't know much about
them, but it was a complaint to the United
States FTC, asking them to stop OpenAI from
releasing any more powerful model. It follows
on the letter.
The first question I have is your name
to me at least stood out among the signatories
because you are known for being very measured
in your comments and very reasoned in your
view of the risks of AI and your skepticism
about the advent of AGI or human level intelligence
anytime in the near future. ChatGPT and GPT-4's
capabilities took even people within the
community by surprise, but certainly the general
public. So why did you sign the letter? Many
of your colleagues, Geoff Hinton and Yann
LeCun, I could go on and on, did not sign
it. The people who did sign it, the prominent
names who signed it Gary Marcus, Max Tegmark,
these guys are known to be very vocal in their
concerns much more so than you. So that's
the first question.
YOSHUA: I've been speaking for many years
about the long-term danger to society of having
very powerful tools at our disposal. It's
like any technology in the sense the more
powerful they are, the more useful they can
be, but also the more dangerous they can be
if they're misused.
YOSHUA: And I had the impression for many
years that the way our society's organized
in each country, but globally in general,
is not adequate to face the challenges that
very powerful technologies bring, and in particular
AI, but I'm thinking of biotechnology in the
future, which is something great that I
think can be incredibly useful for humanity
as well.
YOSHUA: But, but the more powerful it is,
the more wisdom we need in the
way we deal with this. And right now, for
example, the system of competition between
companies as we are seeing now accelerating
with these large language models has benefits,
potentially. This has, you know, driven innovation
in some ways in the last century.
YOSHUA: But also, it means that companies
are a bit in a haste and may not take the
precautions that would otherwise be warranted.
So, in the short term, I think we need to
accelerate the countermeasures
to reduce risks, and that's regulation. Very
simple. We do that for many other areas. You
know, almost every industrial area is highly
regulated when it touches the public, you know,
whether it's airplanes or chemistry
or drugs or, They're all heavily regulated,
not so much computing and, and AI within that.
And because these things are becoming very
powerful, I think it's urgent we kind of
really change gear here. Now why did I sign?
Like why now? Like if maybe last year I wouldn't
have signed this letter, it's because we now
reached that threshold. The threshold is the Turing test, meaning that we have systems that
we can dialogue with, and we can't be sure
if this is coming from a machine or a human.
And that could be exploited in, in highly
dangerous ways that can threaten democracy.
and I care about democracy.
CRAIG: Yeah. An interesting aside is the potential
that AI has for enhancing democracy.
YOSHUA: absolutely like any other thing that
AI can do. It could be very bad or very good,
but right now, where are the investments going?
How much investment is there in like AI tools
for democracy?
YOSHUA: Not so much because it's not clear
where the profit is going to be. And
it's true for other areas of social importance
in healthcare. There is of course, quite a
lot, quite a bit, but it's, it's minuscule
compared to what is going on in, you know,
what is invested by large companies who
care about advertising recommendations, search
engines, and, and so on.
CRAIG: You said that there's a need to accelerate
regulation, that I think everybody agrees
with. But the letter didn't call simply for
accelerated regulation. It called for this
pause. Was that meant as many people believe,
more to get attention because  the
reality - although I saw Chelsea Finn on Twitter
saying she was going to stop work on anything
that pointedtoward AGI -
but is that, is that pause, was it
meant to be realistic or is it simply a way
to emphasize the urgency?
YOSHUA: the chances that a request like this,
you know, be followed by, by these companies
was small. And, I, I, I don't, I don't have
high hopes, but the important thing indeed
is to say that we need to coordinate and the,
the short term coordination that can happen
is between companies, maybe a few companies
decide well, let's take a pause to improve
our, you know, testing documentation, you
know, ethics studies around what we're doing.
But really, at the end of the day, it
has to be in the hands of government that's
going to make sure that every company's going
to do it. And even, you know, more difficult,
but also, but, but essential is that at the
end of the day, it has to be international.
It has to be international treaties
where the main countries that can do these
things agree just like we've done in the past
for many international treaties where there
are risks that could be global. From technology.
CRAIG: And then on this FTC complaint, and
I know that you haven't read it, so I can't
really expect you to, to comment on it in
detail but since the letter was released,
is there a plan for presenting governments with legislative
language or regulatory language from Future
of Life Institute or, or
YOSHUA: I'm not representing
the Future of Life Institute. Yeah, no, I
understand. and I didn't even write that letter.
I was sent it and asked if I would,
I would sign it and I said yes.
YOSHUA: I proposed some changes. It didn't
happen, but I decided to sign anyways.
CRAIG: Well, let me put it this way. Is there
a movement among people that sign the letter,
support the letter? I mean particularly the,
the most prominent people to pursue regulation
with their independent governments. Is there
any coordination at.
YOSHUA: There is not necessarily among the
people who signed. I don't think it's organized
that way, but there are lots of groups of
people who have been working on this in the
last few years. for your information, the
Canadian government is moving forward, a legislation
that's probably going to be the first in the
world to be voted around AI probably this
spring.
YOSHUA: Europe has been working on this for
several years. it should come in 2023. So,
loads and loads of scholars, scientists and,
you know, government policy, public policy
people have been working on this for years.
I've been involved, in the creation and,
and as for two years as the co-chair of a
working group of the Global Partnership on
AI that's a new organization has been created,
by France and Canada, which now has about,
has about 30 countries. it, it has connections
to OECD and it's all about
international coordination around AI. And
that working group was the working group on
responsible AI. And a lot of the things we
discussed for a few years now are precisely
these things.
And in fact, I just witnessed an exchange
about very kind of precise suggestions regarding,
following up on the letter, so regarding watermarking
for example, and mandatory display of the
origin of the content. Is it human or if it's
images, like was it really recorded or is
it generated by machines, right.
YOSHUA: so, these are two different things
and they're connected. So first of all, watermarking
just means that the way that the words are
generated, or the pixels are generated is
not going to look any different to a human.
But a machine with the right program that
could be provided by the company that, that
does these things like OpenAI for example
will be able to very, very easily say this
with very high confidence -
like 99.999%. Not, not some like guess,
but like really be sure- this was generated
by the, you know, GPT 4.0. Or, or something
of that.
CRAIG: Yeah. Let me just jump in though. I'm,
I'm fairly familiar with, with the regulatory
efforts going on. but the letter didn't call
the headline wasn't you know, speed up regulation.
CRAIG: It was to pause development.
YOSHUA: No, but look, don't read the headline.
Read the letter.
CRAIG: Well, this is the problem. This is
my problem with the letter as, as someone
who's peripherally involved, is that I read
the letter. My brother, who immediately sent
me a text, of course, didn't read the letter.
He read the headline.
CRAIG: And the FTC complaint is not about
speeding up regulation. It's about preventing
OpenAI from releasing more powerful models
for the time being. So, I mean, do you
support that kind of action that is coming
out of the letter?
YOSHUA: I agree with the pause.
YOSHUA: However, I think, I don't think it
should be just OpenAI. And I don't think it
should be only the United States. So, it's
going to take more time, but, but I, I really
think that it has to move to the international
arena as quickly as possible. And by the way,
China is also like probably ahead of the US
in terms of regulation of AI for different
reasons.
But, but in a sense, they are as concerned
by the destabilizing effects that these systems
can have on public opinion as democracies
are for, for different reasons. They don't
want to lose power. We want to make sure that
the, you know, democratic debate takes place
as it should. And so maybe there's an
opportunity for an agreement even though it comes
from different angles.
CRAIG: Yeah. Okay. I don't want to get
too, too hung up on, on the letter.
I prefer talking about the research
and the, and the developments. I mean, it
has been impressive what's come out of the
scaling of transformer models.
The only constraint at this point
seems to be money and, and electric power.
Some expertise and, and expertise. That's
right. have but, but there are things missing
in the model, and that's what I've been focused
on in talking to people.
YOSHUA: That's what I focused my research
on.
CRAIG: Yes. So that's what I wanted to talk
about.
So, on the drawbacks there's of course
the hallucination problem that OpenAI is working
on with reinforcement learning with human feedback.
CRAIG: I had a very interesting conversation
with Yann LeCun about his view that you have
to build a world model that,
YOSHUA: I agree on that.
CRAIG: Yeah, because these large language
models, they're, grounding in reality is what's
contained in text. And there's, there's,
YOSHUA: that's not the only reason why we
need a world model.
YOSHUA: there are other reasons. one reason
I focus on is because.
humans separate knowledge of the world
from how to take decisions. And in fact, scientists
do that as well and engineers do that. Just
to understand that separation, consider a
Go playing system like AlphaGo. The knowledge
that's needed here really is the rules of
the game, like how you make points and so
on.
YOSHUA: And, and the fact that you want to
have as many points, I mean, you want to win
and person who has more points, wins.
YOSHUA: Once you have that, you don't need
to interact with the rest of the world. So,
like the world model here would be easy to
get because it's very small. But the machinery
to take that and turn that into good decisions,
which we call inference in machine learning.
That's very complex.
YOSHUA: In fact, doing exact inference here,
like finding the exact right move, the best
move is intractable. It's exponentially hard.
And that's why we need really, really large
neural nets to do the inference. So AlphaGo
is just doing inference. I mean, it's learning
to do inference by checking itself with the
world model.
YOSHUA: It's checking itself because it's
playing against itself and obeying the rules
in a sense. Right? And right now, if you look
at something like large language models, there
is no separation between the knowledge we
are extracting from the world, like the rules
of Go and how we should answer questions.
YOSHUA: It's the same system that somehow
implicitly has the knowledge and is doing
the actions like, you know, answering questions.
And let me give you another example here.
I'm going to illustrate why it could be useful
to, to do that to have that separation. I
had only one car accident in my life, and
I never drove down a cliff or something.
YOSHUA: Probably would've died. Instead, I
had lots of thoughts imagining what would
happen if I, you know, drive over a cliff
or what would happen if I suddenly brake on
the highway and the person behind me hits
me. But I don't need to try it because I have
a world model where I can like simulate these
kinds of things at a very abstract level.
YOSHUA: And so, there are lots of good reasons
why you want that separation. Like the policy
of how I drive. And my knowledge of how things
like causal knowledge of, you know, what,
what happens if I do this? What's
going to be the cause-and-effect chain that
can happen? And science is all like this.
People, like scientists come up with theories,
they're like, like world models.
YOSHUA: And, once they kind of, you
know, want to test a theory or, or believe
a theory, then they, you do engineering. Okay,
so now let's solve for the bridge that's
not going to fall, which is not the same thing
as like the laws of physics and mechanics
that are involved in the world model,
right? So, there's a difference between the
two.
YOSHUA: But right now, in our large neural
nets, trained end to end, which I contributed
to in many ways. We are not doing that. We,
we have a single big neural net that embodies
everything somehow. And that's detrimental
in many ways. I think
it's one of the main causes of overfitting.
For example, because there is no place for
like a real-world model there's no explicit
place for reasoning, reasoning causally,
or reasoning, you know, more generally. Of
course, if you look at ChatGPT, it seems to
kind of reason, but if you, if it has to reason
over too many steps, it, it tends to get it
wrong. It's not just hallucinating, it's like
getting it wrong.
YOSHUA: I did a little experiment. I asked
him to do, additions or multiplication of,
of numbers and, you know, if it's just like
one-digit numbers, it works very well. If
you have three-digit numbers, it
can't do it usually. I mean, it, it claims,
it does it, and, and it gives
you wrong answers or, or wrong explanations.
YOSHUA: which is interesting because to do
this, you, you have many steps and you can
tell it, oh, do it step by step. Show me how
you do it, right? Like people have been doing,
and it still gets it wrong. So, it, it's very
weak in terms of reasoning. So, what, what
reasoning is like reason really, like you
separate the knowledge from how you use it.
That reasoning is using the knowledge, combining
pieces of knowledge in sort of a rational,
coherent way in order to go from A to B. That's
reasoning like planning. Planning is a special
case of reasoning.
CRAIG: So, in, in your research, how do you,
at a very high level, how do
you build a world model? I mean, I'm
sure you know, Yann''s joint embedding predictive
architecture. Yeah.
YOSHUA: So, we've come up with a new framework
for training inference machines. and they,
and it can also be used to. To help train
the world model. I don t know what kind of
people you have in your audience.
YOSHUA: I don t know how much technical I
can go here.
CRAIG: Go technical because people, their
eyes glaze over if it's too technical,
but I'd rather have it in for those that that
follow it.
YOSHUA: So, so we've come up in the last couple
of years with something called generative
flow networks or GFlowNets. And what they
do is they learn to do probabilistic inference.
YOSHUA: So, they are neural nets, which could
be very big potentially, that learn to do
reasoning, essentially through a sequence
of steps. And after that sequence of steps,
they get a kind of reward. So, they're connected
to reinforcement learning. If the steps are
coherent with the world knowledge, so the
world knowledge is given by some other neural
net or some other piece of code if you want,
that says whether the result makes sense.
YOSHUA: So, you have two things to train.
You've got the world model that embodies knowledge
and can check whether things are coherent.
Let me give you an example from, say, mathematics,
that people can understand the,
You know more or less what a theorem and
a proof is about? Yep. Right? Yep. So, the
world model here is just checking that the
proof is correct in the sense that each step
is logical and coherent, and it uses things,
facts, that are known. Like, you know, if
you add X plus Y is Z equals to Y plus X.
So, so you're allowed to do that transformation
and the inference machine is proposing solutions
to a problem like, prove this theory and it
needs to,  usually through a sequence of steps
where it uses knowledge and if it messes up,
like it makes up, it hallucinates things along
the way like ChatGPT does, the reward is
going to be very bad. And so, it learns
to be coherent.
YOSHUA: And that's not something that is explicitly
ingrained in current large language models.
They get it because they've seen
so much text. And humans tend to be coherent,
but not always. And you know, there are lots
of subtleties here. For example, who's speaking,
maybe I'm speaking not the truth, because
I'm trying to convince you.
YOSHUA: And so, there are lots of subtleties
in language that means that it's not always
like the truth that you're seeing right? And
so, we need machines that understand the notion
of truth in a more fundamental way, I think.
By the way, this is something that we are
doing with neural nets, but the idea behind
reasoning and logic as a building block of
AI are from the early days of AI, like, it's
like classical AI, symbolic AI.
YOSHUA: You know, that's what Gary Marcus
has been saying. I think that the way that
these guys have been proposing it is not going
to work. But what can work is to train a neural
net to behave in a coherent - to behave rationally
as in manipulate pieces of truth together
to come up with proposals for things that
make sense.
CRAIG: I understand there's the inference
model, the world model, and then the language
model and the language model...
YOSHUA: Yes, exactly. The language model is
yet another thing in the brain. The language
part is quite distinct from -  That's right -
the reasoning part and the math part and,
and, and you know, the knowledge about action and so on.
CRAIG: Right. And that's kind of the problem
right now, the language model, it produces
coherent language. It doesn't really know
whether something is true or not. Yes. the,
and, in your structure, the world
model would provide that ground truth. and,
and the inference model would execute reasoning and then the
language model would express,
YOSHUA: it would, it would do more than execute
reasoning, because reasoning you have to understand
reasoning is very hard because there are many
paths you could follow. Think about proving
a theorem. Is it easy? No. Because how, you
know, which pieces of knowledge do I combine
in what order?
YOSHUA: There's an exponential number of possibilities.
That's why you need generative models. So, you
need actually models that are very similar
to what we use for large language models.
But instead of generating words and imitating
what humans have said, they generate sequences
of like pieces of, I mean, they, they pick
pieces of knowledge or they, they pick pieces
of solutions, and then they get rewarded
if, if they do it right.
YOSHUA: Right. And by the way, the inference
machine is also important to train the model
itself. So, if, if there are things that are
not given an input, so let, let me give you
an example. You see an image and you're trying
to come up with an explanation for what's
in the image. And maybe the image doesn't
come with labels.
YOSHUA: So, you're trying to do improvised
learning. Like humans look at images and they
make sense of them. So there, there are well
known principles in, in machine learning to
deal with that situation where you don't observe
the full story. You have to, they're called
latent variables, like the Geoff Hinton calls
them hidden variables. The model needs to
come up with a, like a story that explains
the data. The inference machine is the thing
that comes up with the story, and then the
world model checks whether the story is consistent
with the image, and that's how the inference
machine gets better.
YOSHUA: It's trying to make stories that are
consistent with the model, but when it does
that, it helps to train the world model as
well, because it, now that you have a story
and an image, you can see, you can build a
model that makes the right links between them.
so, a lot of the work that Geoff and others
and, and you know, I did in the last few,
in the early decades, especially of deep learning
with probabilistic models like Boltzmann machines
and so on, were based on these ideas,
but I think that now we can use these large
neural nets, like the large language models,
but not for language, for reasoning.
CRAIG: On the world model side though, it
sounds, when you say hearkening back to the
early days of AI, it sounds like a rule-based
system where you load it up with
YOSHUA: No, because we are going to learn
the rules as well, and we are going to learn
them in a probabilistic way.
YOSHUA: So, so here's another aspect that's
missing from classical AI. Given any finite
amount of data, you can't be a hundred percent
sure of what is the right world model that
explains the data because there are, may be
multiple interpretations. It's like in science
you have usually different theories that are
compatible with the data.
YOSHUA: And what scientists do is try to come
up with different theories, diverse set of
theories. That's important because if we just
go for the first theory we find, it might
be completely wrong, even though it fits the
data. It's, but what if we know that we have
two competing theories? We can be safer. Like
maybe sometimes they agree and then we should
go that way, and sometimes they disagree,
and then we should be careful.
YOSHUA: So, one of the problems with things
like ChatGPT right now and, and many of these
models, it's not just this one, is that they
are often confidently wrong. It's not just
that they hallucinate. They're sure of what
they're saying. And of course, that's bad,
right? That can lead to catastrophic outcomes.
But, and, and I guess there are some humans
who were like that too.
YOSHUA: But I guess for humans is maybe a
lot is tied to their ego. But when, you know,
in a, in good circumstances, people have a
good sense that some belief that comes to
them isn't completely sure and they're actually
good when you ask them to bet. If they have
to bet money on something, somehow, they'll
exploit the fact that they're not sure to
bet more or less money.
YOSHUA: Okay? So, our brain is doing that
calculation. It's not something we verbalize,
but we kind of sense it and then we act accordingly,
and that is very important. because coming
back the connection to the world model is
that really what we need to do is not to have
one world model, but to have a distribution
over world models.
YOSHUA: So, it's not like we have a neural
net that is the world model. I think that's
the wrong picture. the right picture is we
have a neural net that generates the
theory that corresponds to the world model,
just again, the same kind on that I've been
talking about. But now, instead of coming
up with an explanation for an image, it comes
up with a general theory that explains a lot
of data.
YOSHUA: And the theory could be something
that can be verbalized the same way that scientists
come up with theories. So, you see, we are
talking about things that are related to classical
AI, but in classical AI, not only, there was
no uncertainty, but it was all handcrafted,
like the theory is a set of rules and facts
that somebody puts down.
YOSHUA: And you know, maybe that can be part
of a solution of something, but really many
of these statements, they're not like a hundred
percent sure and so people are starting to
play with probability and so on. But it, we
never got it quite right. And the reason we
never got it quite right is that getting it
right is computationally - it looks computationally
intractable, but it turns out it can be approximated
by these very large neural nets. They do a
good job at that. So, we can have large neural
nets that just, just like we do, spit out
theories or, or pieces of theories that are
relevant to what we're currently seeing. rather
than have one theory that's, you know, hard
coded.
either by humans or even by a machine.
And that's like one list that we don't change
and then we trust thereon - that doesn't make
sense. We keep revising our views and our
views are uncertain. So, we have a distribution
of our theories, and we don't say, oh, there
are these 10 theories and this, you know,
this one is 0.8 and this one is 0.6.
YOSHUA: That's not how it works. And the reason
is there's an exponential number of theories,
so we don't explicitly emulate them. Instead,
we generate pieces of theories according to
their Bayseian probability. And there's a
lot of evidence from cognitive science that
people do that. It's, it's happening
unconsciously because that generative model
is something that's system one.
YOSHUA: It's, it's behind the scenes. Right.
You don't control it. You just see your thoughts
coming out.
CRAIG: I can imagine the inference model.
I mean, there, there's a lot of inference
models out there now. How do you train the
world model? Is it,
YOSHUA: okay, well that's, that's the cool
thing.
YOSHUA: If you have the inference machine.
CRAIG: Oh, sorry. I'll just finish the question -
because there is a certain amount of reasoning
in large language models, as you found in
your own research. And so, and that's contained
in language, but if you want to build a real-world
model, you want to get beyond language.
CRAIG: So, do you do it using video? I mean,
how do you do that? Right.
YOSHUA: The, the, the world knowledge. I mean,
the world model could be about all kinds of
things, images, concepts in the world. I,
I like to focus on the abstractions of the
kind that we can verbalize, but you, you can
also, and Yann is sort of more focused on
the perception and action part.
YOSHUA: but the principal, I think
could be applied to both and the principal
is the there is no world model. You only have
an inference machine because - So now what
I'm going to say is a little bit mind twisting.
You only have an inference machine. And what
that inference machine does is it, it, it
can generate the world model, or the piece
that you need at the moment.
YOSHUA: So, and when you have such a piece,
you can also evaluate how your regular inference
is doing. Like, you know, am I answering the
questions, right? So, if I see an image about,
you know, dogs chasing cats, a piece of my
theory of about how the world works may come
to me about things I know about things I think
I know, I think are true about cats and
dogs. And that will serve to provide a reward
for having decided that I need to run out
quickly to stop them because maybe the cat
is in danger or maybe the dog's in danger.
so, what I'm trying to say is we don't actually
need a separate world. I mean, I'm saying
the opposite of what I said earlier, that's
why I'm saying it's mind twisting.
YOSHUA: So, so now that we've established,
we want a world model and an inference machine,
I'm going to say that instead of a world model
thinking of like a separate neural net, because
there are many possibilities of what the right
world model should be, you have actually just
another generative neural net that generates
just the pieces of world model that you need
on the fly.
YOSHUA: It's probabilistic. So maybe one day
you view things one way, and the other day
you view things a different way because really
there's uncertainty. and, and that serves
as a sort of reward to drive your normal inference.
Like, what should I do? how should I plan?
And so, on
CRAIG: these snippets of, of, of reality,
of the world model that are being generated,
how do you ensure that they're, they reflect
reality?
YOSHUA: Because you can, once you generate
a piece of theory, you can also like confront
it to the observations. So, what a theory
gives you is a way to quantify, how well it
matches any piece of data. So, like in science,
so if I have a theory that says force equals
mass times acceleration, and I observe force
mass and acceleration, I can just compute
how well it matches.
YOSHUA: So, a theory gives us a checkable
quantity about how well it fits the data.
A theory is like a likelihood function, right?
So, it, it, it, it's something or an energy
function, in terms of what Yann likes, it's
a quantity that we can measure. The output
of a theory is a measure of how any particular
data is consistent with the theory.
YOSHUA: So that's what a theory does. Its
output is how well it fits with the data.
CRAIG: is this active research and if so,
where are you in it?
YOSHUA: yeah, it's very active. It's a good
part of what I do in my group. One of the
first papers that goes in, in that direction
came out last summer.
YOSHUA: It's called Bayesian Structure Learning
with Generative Flow Networks. And in, in
this paper, the theory is a causal theory.
So, what the, the probabilistic inference
machine does is it generates a graph that
says this variable is the cause of this one.
This variable is the cause of that one and
so on.
YOSHUA: and that's in theory of the observed
data that we are seeing. And once you have
that, you have a way to numerically then evaluate
how it's consistent with whatever data you
have at hand. And that becomes a reward for
the inference machine that generates the theory.
And next time it's going to generate one that
fits better.
YOSHUA: But it's not like in usual reinforcement
learning where you're trying to find the theory
that best fits the data, that would be back
to maximum likelihood training. What, what
the GFlowNet is different from reinforcement
learning. Standard reinforcement learning
is that instead of looking for generating
the actions that give you the best reward,
it's sampling actions or, you know, like theories
with some probability.
YOSHUA: And it's trying to do it such that
this probability matches the reward so that
it's proportional to the reward. So then if
you have, first of all, if you have two theories
that are about equally well fitting the data,
you have a 50 50 chance of, of sampling them.
If you have a million theories that are equally
fitting the data you, you can sample all of
them with standard reinforcement running.
YOSHUA: It will pick one theory and be happy.
Right. So, if you want to be Bayesian, which
is like mathematically the right thing to
do if you could, but it's hard. You want to
have all the theory somehow. And if a theory
fits the data twice as good, maybe you want
to sample it twice more often. And that's,
that's the Bayseian way of thinking about how
you should be rational in your decision making.
YOSHUA: Then you should consider all the theories
and average their decisions to decide what
to do next.
CRAIG: Okay. Great. Thanks. Bye-bye I really
appreciate you doing this.
YOSHUA: Hello to Beauregard!
CRAIG: He'll be delighted I've got him studying
machine learning online. That's it for this
episode. I want to thank our sponsor, NetSuite
by Oracle. If you want to give them a try
for a limited time, you can get.
CRAIG: Full implementation with no payment
and no interest for six months. Just go to
www.netsuite.com/eyeonai. Be sure to type
the EYEONAI so they know the sponsorship is
working. If you want a transcript of this
show, you can find one on our website, eye-on.ai.
CRAIG: And remember, the Singularity may not
be near, but AI is changing your world, so
pay attention.